Let's take a look at the next thing. Let's open the blueprint of our character.
Let's go to the weapon component. To begin with, we can change the
order of the weapons by dragging the grenade launcher to the top in the array. Now he will be the main weapon.
Let's also temporarily change the launcher's ammo count, in our DefaultAmmo structure,
change the number of clips. We do this in order for the AI ​​character to quickly shoot his ammunition. He shot once .. two .. three ..
After that he has no cartridges and he cannot shoot.
When the AI ​​character runs out of ammo, we need to automatically switch weapons. Let's get down to it in this tutorial.
Let's switch weapons by modifying the weapon component.
Let's go to our classes, to the components and create an inheritor of STUWeaponComponent.
Create a new class, name it STUAIWeaponComponent. Click create class.
Before writing the code, we need to make small changes to the base weapon class and weapon component.
We will have to weaken the access to some functions and class members.
BaseWeapon will only have one change. We need to move the IsAmmoEmpty function from the protected
section to the public section. Go to the weapon component. We make the StartFire and NextWeapon functions virtual.
After that we can override them in AIWeaponComponent.
We transfer the array of weapons and the pointer to the current weapon to the protected section.
This way we can access them in our AIWeaponComponent.
We do the same with the CanFire and CanEquip functions.
And we also transfer the EquipWeapon function.
Go to the header file AIWeaponComponent.
Let's create a public section and override the StartFire and NextWeapon
functions. Let's create a body for each function.
We include the header file for the base weapon class.
Let's start with the StartFire function. It will be simple enough.
Before we start shooting, we need to put the same check as in the basic function.
Call the CanFire function and if we cannot shoot, then we exit the function. Next, we check
if we have ammunition in the current weapon. To do this, we call the function that we just moved
to the public section - IsAmmoEmpty. If there is no ammo, then we call the NextWeapon function.
That is, we change the weapon to the next, and if the ammunition remains, then we call the StartFire function of the current weapon.
So, the first function is ready. The NextWeapon function remains. It will be a little more complicated. First, we will also use the
check from the base function: if CanEquip returns false, then we immediately exit the NextWeapon function.
Next, we create a local variable called NextIndex.
NextIndex will equal the current index, incremented by one.
And let's take the whole expression modulo the size of the Weapons array so that NextIndex does not go beyond its limits.
The variable CurrentWeaponIndex is not available for us. It also needs to be moved to the protected section
so that child classes can access it. Return to the weapon component.
There are only two weapons in our game, but let's solve the problem in general. For this we need a whie loop.
Main loop condition: NextIndex does not equal CurrentWeaponIndex.
We will increase NextIndex by one until we find a weapon that has ammo.
If, in the end, NextIndex turns out to be equal to CurrentWeaponIndex, we will end the loop. This will mean
that we do not have a weapon that has ammunition. If the weapon with NextIndex has ammunition,
that is, the IsAmmoEmpty function returns false, then we can immediately break and end the loop,
that is, we have found the weapon we need. If this weapon is empty, then we increase the next index by one
AND also take it modulo the size of the array.
At the end, after the loop, we check: if CurrentWeaponIndex is not equal to NextIndex, then this means that we have found some other weapon.
In this case, we are setting the CurrentWeaponIndex variable to NextIndex.
And we change weapons using the EquipWeapon function.
We pass in the CurrentWeaponIndex function.
The last thing we need to do is override the weapon component in the AICharacter.
We include the header file AIWeaponComponent.
And let's copy the code with which we redefined the motion component.
We insert the code for calling the parent constructor and change the component to the weapon component.
And we also specify the correct name of the component.
We compile the project.
Let's temporarily make our rifle with the final ammunition to see that everything works.
Let's set the number of stores - 3 and also the damage amount to zero, so that we won't be accidentally killed. We start the game.
Let's catch up with our NPC, we need to get into the field of sight. So he started shooting. Shoots from a grenade launcher, he has 3 rounds.
Missiles ran out, he switched to the rifle. Also fires several clips.
And after that, the change does not take place, because each weapon has an empty ammunition load.